Hi there. It's great
to have you back!
Let's continue to learn
more about how to
work in Linux as a
security analyst.
In this video, we'll explore
file and directory
permissions.
We'll learn how Linux
represents permissions
and how you can check
for the permissions
associated with files
and directories.
Permissions are the type of
access granted for a
file or directory.
Permissions are related
to authorization.
Authorization is the
concept of granting
access to specific
resources in a system.
Authorization
allows you to limit
access to specified
files or directories.
A good rule to follow is that
data access is on a
need-to-know basis.
You can imagine
the security risk
it would impose if anyone
could access or modify
anything they wanted
to on a system.
There are three types
of permissions in
Linux that an authorized
user can have.
The first type of
permission is read.
On a file, read permissions
means contents on the
file can be read.
On a directory,
this permission
means you can read
all files in that directory.
Next are write permissions.
Write permissions
on a file allow
modifications of
contents of the file.
On a directory, write
permissions indicate that
new files can be created
in that directory.
Finally, there are also
execute permissions.
Execute permissions
on files mean that
the file can be executed if
it's an executable file.
Execute permissions on
directories allow users to
enter into a directory
and access its files.
Permissions are granted for
three different types of owners.
The first type is the user.
The user is the
owner of the file.
When you create a file,
you become the
owner of the file,
but the ownership
can be changed.
Group is the next type.
Every user is a part
of a certain group.
A group consists
of several users,
and this is one way to manage
a multi-user environment.
Finally, there is other.
Other can be considered all
other users on the system.
Basically, anyone
else with access
to the system belongs
to this group.
In Linux, file permissions are
represented with a
10-character string.
For a directory with full
permissions for the user group,
this string would be: drwxrwxrwx.
Let's examine what this
means more closely.
The first character
indicates the file type.
As shown in this example,
d is used to indicate
it is a directory.
If this character contains
a hyphen instead,
it would be a regular file.
The second, third, and
fourth characters indicate
the permissions for the user.
In this example, r
indicates the user
has read permissions,
w indicates the user
has write permissions,
and x indicates the user
has execute permissions.
If one of these
permissions was missing,
there would be a hyphen
instead of the letter.
In the same way,
the fifth, sixth,
and seventh characters indicate
permissions for the
next owner type group.
As it shows here,
the type group also has read,
write, and execute permissions.
There are no hyphens
to indicate that
any of these permissions
haven't been granted.
Finally, the eighth through tenth characters
indicate permissions for
the last owner type: other.
They also have read, write,
and execute permissions
in this example.
Ensuring files and
directories are set
with their appropriate
access permissions is
critical to protecting
sensitive files and
maintaining the overall
security of a system.
For example, payroll departments
handle sensitive information.
If someone outside of
the payroll group
could read this file,
this would be a privacy concern.
Another example
is when the user,
the group, and other can
all write to a file.
This type of file is considered
a world-writable file.
World-writable files can pose
significant security risks.
So how do we check permissions?
First, we need to understand
what options are.
Options modify the
behavior of the command.
The options for a command
can be a single letter
or a full word.
Checking permissions
involves adding
options to the ls command.
First, ls -l displays
permissions to files
and directories.
You might also want to display
hidden files and identify
their permissions.
Hidden files, which begin with
a period before their name, don't
normally appear when you use
ls to display file contents.
Entering ls -a
displays hidden files.
Then you can combine these
two options to do both.
Entering ls -la
displays permissions
to files and directories,
including hidden files.
Let's get into Bash and
try out these options.
Right now, we're in the
project subdirectory.
First, let's use the ls command
to display its contents.
The output displays the
files in this directory,
but we don't know anything
about their permissions.
By using ls -l instead,
we get expanded information on
these files. Let's do this.
The file names are now on
the right side of each row.
The first piece of
information in each row
shows the permissions in
the format that we
discussed earlier.
Since these are all files
and not directories,
notice how the first
character is a hyphen.
Let's focus on one specific
file: project1.txt.
The second through fourth
characters of its
permissions show us the user
has both read and
write permissions
but lacks execute permissions.
In both the fifth through
seventh characters and eighth
through tenth characters,
the sequence is r--.
This means group and other
have only read privileges.
After the permissions, ls -l
first displays the username.
Here, that's us, analyst.
Next comes the group name;
in our case, the security group.
Now let's use ls -a
The output includes
two more files—hidden
files with the
names: .hidden1.txt
and .hidden2.txt
Finally, we can also use
ls -la to show the
permissions for all files,
including these hidden files.
I thought that was pretty
interesting. Did you?
You now know a little more about
file permissions and ownership.
This will be helpful
when working in
security because monitoring and
setting correct permissions is
essential for
protecting information.
Take a small break and
meet me in the next video.